Q1.In Python Programming, how many types of errors are possible and define them.

     #1 syntax error
      syntax error occurs when the code is not in proper format.

    #2 run time error also known as exception error
      run time error occurs when the program is not able to run the code.
    
    #3 logical error
      logical error occur when code runs without any error but we dont get desired output. 
      the more explanation is defined in the program.

    #4 type error
       type error occur when try to do any operation that is not suitable for certain data type like we cant add int and str. 
       coding example is defined in the program. 

    #5 index error
       it occurs when we try to access the index that is not present .

    #6 key error 
       it occurs when we try to access the the data associated with the key that is not present.

       coding example has been given  in the program . 


Q2 .What is an Exception and write the syntax of exception handling?
    #Exception is an event that occurs when an error occurs in the program during runtime .

    Syntax of Exception Handling :

       try:
          statements

         except Exception:
          statements
    
    Example of code has been given in the .py file 

Q3. Define User-Defined Exceptions in Python Programming.

    we create own exceptions using the class Exception. it is created to force certain constraints like voting age etc.

        syntax:

      class ExceptionName(Exception):
         pass

    we can raise these userdefined errors using raise keywords at certain condtions . it is more explained in the program . 


Q4 . Write a Python Program to demonstrate how a user can
customize the exceptions using User-Defined Exceptions.
  
ans- this question is almost same to question number 3 . coding example is given in both question number 3 and 4 are identical . you can reffer to any of those. 

     theoretical answer is given in Q3 also included in the comments of whole code  . 

     

